feat: add Supabase Cron docs (#30822)
supabase/supabase: apps/docs/content/guides/cron/quickstart.mdx

---
title: 'Quickstart'
---

<Admonition type="note">

Job names are case sensitive and cannot be edited once created.

Attempting to create a second Job with the same name (and case) will overwrite the first Job.

</Admonition>

## Schedule a Job

<Tabs
  scrollable
  size="small"
  type="underlined"
  defaultActiveId="dashboard-schedule-job"
  queryGroup="database-method"
>
<TabPanel id="dashboard-schedule-job" label="Dashboard">

> 1. Go to the [Jobs](https://supabase.com/dashboard/project/_/integrations/cron/jobs) section to schedule your first Job.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Go to the [Jobs](/dashboard/project/_/integrations/cron/jobs) section to schedule your first Job.
```

> 2. Click on `Create job` button or navigate to the new Cron Job form [here](https://supabase.com/dashboard/project/_/integrations/cron/jobs?dialog-shown=true).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Click on `Create job` button or navigate to the new Cron Job form [here](/dashboard/project/_/integrations/cron/jobs?dialog-shown=true).
```

>
<TabPanel id="dashboard-edit-job" label="Dashboard">

1. Go to the [Jobs](https://supabase.com/dashboard/project/_/integrations/cron/jobs) section and find the Job you'd like to edit.
2. Click on the three vertical dots menu on the right side of the Job and click `Edit cron job`.
3. Make your changes and then click `Save cron job`.

</TabPanel>
<TabPanel id="sql-edit-job" label="SQL">

```sql
select cron.alter_job(
  job_id := (select jobid from cron.job where jobname = 'permanent-cron-job-name'),
  schedule := '*/5 * * * *'
);
```

Full options for the `cron.alter_job()` function are:

```sql
cron.alter_job(
  job_id bigint,
  schedule text default null,
  command text default null,
  database text default null,
  username text default null,
  active boolean default null
)
```

It is also possible to modify a job by using the `cron.schedule()` function by inputting the same job name. This will replace the existing job via upsert.

</TabPanel>
</Tabs>

## Activate/Deactivate a Job

<Tabs
  scrollable
  size="small"
  type="underlined"
  defaultActiveId="dashboard-unschedule-job"
  queryGroup="database-method"
>
<TabPanel id="dashboard-unschedule-job" label="Dashboard">

> 1. Go to the [Jobs](https://supabase.com/dashboard/project/_/integrations/cron/jobs) section and find the Job you'd like to unschedule.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Go to the [Jobs](/dashboard/project/_/integrations/cron/jobs) section and find the Job you'd like to unschedule.
```

2. Toggle the `Active`/`Inactive` switch next to Job name.

</TabPanel>
<TabPanel id="sql-unschedule-job" label="SQL">

```sql
-- Activate Job
select cron.alter_job(
  job_id := (select jobid from cron.job where jobname = 'permanent-cron-job-name'),
  active := true
);

-- Deactivate Job
select cron.alter_job(
  job_id := (select jobid from cron.job where jobname = 'permanent-cron-job-name'),
  active := false
);
```

</TabPanel>
</Tabs>

## Unschedule a Job

<Tabs
  scrollable
  size="small"
  type="underlined"
  defaultActiveId="dashboard-delete-job"
  queryGroup="database-method"
>
<TabPanel id="dashboard-delete-job" label="Dashboard">

> 1. Go to the [Jobs](https://supabase.com/dashboard/project/_/integrations/cron/jobs) section and find the Job you'd like to delete.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Go to the [Jobs](/dashboard/project/_/integrations/cron/jobs) section and find the Job you'd like to delete.
```

2. Click on the three vertical dots menu on the right side of the Job and click `Delete cron job`.
3. Confirm deletion by entering the Job name.

</TabPanel>
<TabPanel id="sql-delete-job" label="SQL">

```sql
select cron.unschedule('permanent-cron-job-name');
```

<Admonition type="warning">

Unchscheduling a Job will permanently delete the Job from `cron.job` table but its run history remain in `cron.job_run_details` table.

</Admonition>

</TabPanel>
</Tabs>

## Inspecting Job Runs

<Tabs
  scrollable
  size="small"
  type="underlined"
  defaultActiveId="dashboard-runs-job"
  queryGroup="database-method"
>
<TabPanel id="dashboard-runs-job" label="Dashboard">

> 1. Go to the [Jobs](https://supabase.com/dashboard/project/_/integrations/cron/jobs) section and find the Job you want to see the runs of.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Go to the [Jobs](/dashboard/project/_/integrations/cron/jobs) section and find the Job you want to see the runs of.
```

> 2. Click on `History` button next to the Job name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Click on the `History` button next to the Job name.
```

</TabPanel>
<TabPanel id="sql-runs-job" label="SQL">

```sql
select
  *
from cron.job_run_details
where jobid = (select jobid from cron.job where jobname = 'permanent-cron-job-name')
order by start_time desc
limit 10;
```

<Admonition type="warning">

> The records in `cron.job_run_details` table are not cleaned up automatically nor when Jobs are unscheduled which will take up disk space in your database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The records in the `cron.job_run_details` table are not cleaned up automatically. They are also not removed when jobs are unscheduled, which will take up disk space in your database.
```

</Admonition>

</TabPanel>
</Tabs>

## Examples

### Delete data every week

Delete old data every Saturday at 3:30am (GMT):

```sql
select cron.schedule (
  'saturday-cleanup', -- name of the cron job
  '30 3 * * 6', -- Saturday at 3:30am (GMT)
  $$ delete from events where event_time < now() - interval '1 week' $$
);
```

### Run a vacuum every day

Vacuum every day at 3:00am (GMT):

```sql
select cron.schedule('nightly-vacuum', '0 3 * * *', 'VACUUM');
```

### Call a database function every 5 minutes

> Create a [`hello_world()`](https://supabase.com/docs/guides/database/functions?language=sql#simple-functions) database function and then call it every 5 minutes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a [`hello_world()`](/docs/guides/database/functions?language=sql#simple-functions) database function and then call it every 5 minutes:
```

```sql
select cron.schedule('call-db-function', '*/5 * * * *', 'SELECT hello_world()');
```

### Call a database stored procedure

To use a stored procedure, you can call it like this:

```sql
select cron.schedule('call-db-procedure', '*/5 * * * *', 'CALL my_procedure()');
```

### Invoke Supabase Edge Function every 30 seconds

Make a POST request to a Supabase Edge Function every 30 seconds:

```sql
select
  cron.schedule(
    'invoke-function-every-half-minute',
    '30 seconds',
    $$
    select
      net.http_post(
          url:='https://project-ref.supabase.co/functions/v1/function-name',
          headers:=jsonb_build_object('Content-Type','application/json', 'Authorization', 'Bearer ' || 'YOUR_ANON_KEY'),
          body:=jsonb_build_object('time', now() ),
          timeout_milliseconds:=5000
      ) as request_id;
    $$
  );
```

<Admonition type="note">

> This requires [`pg_net` extension](/docs/guides/database/extensions/pg_net) to be enabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This requires the [`pg_net` extension](/docs/guides/database/extensions/pg_net) to be enabled.
```

</Admonition>

## Caution: Scheduling System Maintenance

Be extremely careful when setting up Jobs for system maintenance tasks as they can have unintended consequences.

> For instance, scheduling a command to terminate idle connections with `pg_terminate_backend(pid)` can disrupt critical background processes like nightly backups. Often, there is an existing Postgres setting e.g. `idle_session_timeout` that can perform these common maintenance tasks without the risk.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For instance, scheduling a command to terminate idle connections with `pg_terminate_backend(pid)` can disrupt critical background processes like nightly backups. Often, there is an existing Postgres setting, such as `idle_session_timeout`, that can perform these common maintenance tasks without the risk.
```

>
<TabPanel id="dashboard-delete-job" label="Dashboard">

1. Go to the [Jobs](/dashboard/project/_/integrations/cron/jobs) section and find the Job you'd like to delete.
2. Click on the three vertical dots menu on the right side of the Job and click `Delete cron job`.
3. Confirm deletion by entering the Job name.

<Image
  alt="Cron Unschedule"
  src="/docs/img/guides/database/cron/cron-unschedule.png"
  className="max-w-[700px] !mx-auto border rounded-md"
  zoomable
/>

</TabPanel>
<TabPanel id="sql-delete-job" label="SQL">

```sql
select cron.unschedule('permanent-cron-job-name');
```

<Admonition type="warning">

Unchscheduling a Job will permanently delete the Job from `cron.job` table but its run history remain in `cron.job_run_details` table.

</Admonition>

</TabPanel>
</Tabs>

## Inspecting Job Runs

<Tabs
  scrollable
  size="small"
  type="underlined"
  defaultActiveId="dashboard-runs-job"
  queryGroup="database-method"
>
<TabPanel id="dashboard-runs-job" label="Dashboard">

1. Go to the [Jobs](/dashboard/project/_/integrations/cron/jobs) section and find the Job you want to see the runs of.
2. Click on the `History` button next to the Job name.

> 

Author: @olirice drop image here pls
